WRC AM 980.
Ladies and gentlemen, AM 980, WRC, the talk station, presents the Mike Cuthbert Show with your host, Mike Cuthbert.
News with John Megley, WRC all-day traffic, weather from the Weather Channel, and your participation at 202-882-WRC1.
Free mobile calls at Star WRC on Bell Atlantic and pound 980 on Cellular One.
Get on the line now.
Good morning, everybody.
1109 here at WRC, and our phones are open.
They soon probably will be filled, so call early for the book guy, Alan Stipek, who's here.
He makes his, well, I suppose every two months we try to have Alan on because, first of all, he gives lots of you a lot of good value, and second of all, as all my friends say and some of my enemies when they meet me, you know that guy, every time he's on, I think, ah, books.
But I always learn something I never knew before about either books or literature or history or something.
That's strange.
You never know what's going to happen.
So, Alan, welcome to you.
Morning, Mike.
How's business?
Business is fine, as usual.
Let's give you the ground rules.
For Alan Stipek from Second Story Books, he is the owner, manager, founder, and major domo of the largest, I suppose the largest,
bookstore of its kind on the East Coast.
He's got his fingers into tentacles all over.
Close, right, Al?
Close.
Okay.
Oh, a little hyperbole.
Never heard.
Who's going to argue with us?
I'm not accused of that.
What he's going to do for you is he's got his basic resource materials here, and they'll take him as far as it'll go.
If you have a book in your home, in your attic, in your basement, in your collection, as we did the other day, I'd
picked his brain when he stopped by the house for a purpose.
You're just curious, is this worth anything?
We'll find out.
In our case, it happened to be a Nellie Melba collection of things from Australia during World War I for the Belgian Relief Fund, filled with color plates, everything, and as Alan said, enjoy reading it.
You're not going to make a lot of money on it.
But if you have such a book, please, if you can, bring it to the phone with you when you call.
If you're in your car, at least take enough time to remember as much as you can about the book.
Title, publisher, year, so forth.
And give us a call at 202-882-WRC1.
Star WRC on Bell Atlantic.
Cellular 1 is pound 980.
And call us and we'll see if it's worth anything.
Any breaks in the market these days?
Anything suddenly popping up is worth more than it usually is?
Not really.
Everything is constant.
We're involved in selling a lot of autographs at the present time, and I'm very surprised at the strength of the autograph market.
We're handling an estate of a man who was the personal assistant to Harry Truman.
He's a 94-year-old gentleman living in Florida, and we have all the White House telephone logs from that time period, which...
We're going to be giving to the Harry Truman Library, but it's really been a gas reading who Harry Truman was talking to at 3.30 in the morning on Sunday.
He never called Paul Hume.
I know he wrote him a letter.
The phone calls to Joseph Stalin are interesting.
Our number again, 202882 WRC1.
We're going to help you with anything concerning a book that is not new.
Let's go to James first.
You're on WRC.
Good morning.
I have been looking for a book that I had and lost many years ago.
It was first published in our...
late thirties and republished in the sixties called the knack of selling yourself
And just a wealth of wisdom, things that you do in the world to succeed in business.
Have you ever heard of this?
Sure, it's a self-promotion book.
There are a lot of books in that category right now.
Pop Psych Self-Help is a major industry.
There's an author, Ogmandino, who writes books on self-help.
I know the shelves are full of them, but this one particular one is the one I want.
It's not difficult.
You could contact our Rockville location, Second Story Books, and ask for our search service and we could probably obtain a book for you between three and six weeks if we don't have it on the shelf.
Oh, good.
And you can reach us there at 301-770-0477.
Okay, thank you very much.
Thank you.
The knack of selling yourself, eh?
That's what we're doing here, aren't we?
Dorothy, you're on WRC.
Good morning.
Yes.
Hi, I have a couple of old books that I have here.
I don't know if they're worth anything.
And one is called Lyman's Historical Charts.
And I think this was written back in the, well, it went into Congress in 1873.
It's about a lot of charts, I guess, common logical charts.
What kind of charts, ma'am?
I guess you would call them chronological charts.
Oh, okay.
Historically?
Historical chronological?
Historically, yeah.
Yeah.
Is it a big fold-out?
It's a great big old looking green book.
Yeah, I mean, but are the charts in the book, would they fold out or are they just like a regular book and page by page shows it?
It's like a regular book.
It's page by page.
So leatherback or hardback?
It's a hardback.
I mean, leatherback?
It's been leather-bound.
It's kind of old and rusty.
Depending on the extent of the work on each of the charts, it could be a book I could sell for $20 to $50.
Some of the interesting chart books from that time period have these humongous fold-out charts that go for 20 or 30 feet showing the chronological history of the world.
We had one in the store that we were going to use for support when we were buying antiquities.
The problem is we didn't have a room large enough to house it.
Okay, because this one goes back just before biblical times.
Right.
Is that it?
That's one of the books.
I mean, these books were used in schools, you know, as educational aids.
Educational things, yes.
And this one is called Scenes from Every Land.
Right.
And this goes back in the 1800s.
Scenes from Every Land?
That's what it says.
Okay.
And that's a leatherback book also?
Yes, it is.
Okay.
I would imagine that book, does it have plates or woodcuts in it?
How do you mean plates?
It has pictures.
Are they like steel engravings or color engravings?
No, it's engraving.
It's kind of grayish black, I guess you would call it.
Yeah, but do you know the difference between a steel engraving and a woodcut?
Okay.
A steel engraving would be, actually, you could feel the texture of the steel engraving on the page.
It would be different.
It would be raised a little.
Yeah.
They're woodcuts.
I would imagine.
I mean, books like that sell anywhere, again, from the $20 to $50 area if it's an octavo book, which is a relatively large book.
What about the Bibles in the 1800s?
Unfortunately, the majority of Bibles in the 1800s have no market value and are only important for the individual family.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You say most of the Bibles in the 19th or 18th century, what would make one unusual?
Well, for a variety of reasons.
One would be a Bible in a specific dialect, which is not, you know, greatly printed.
I mean, a Bible which was printed in Dakota.
or in an indian dialect would have value um a bible with an inscription from let's say napoleon to josephine that would be expensive you know there's variety so specific printings how valuable to anybody are bibles that are were used like the family bible that has the whole genealogy of the family listed in the inside cover and pages
Well, I mean, if you want to go to the top of the ladder, we handled Frederick Douglass' Bible, or his son's Bible, which had the only existing known photograph of Frederick Douglass' daughter who died at 10.
So just from a genealogical point of view on that Bible, that Bible was worth $40,000, $50,000.
Now, if the genealogists, obviously a Bible which has a family history is going to be important, but as far as the monetary value, that's just, you know, depends on who the genealogy is of.
grant you're on wrc with alan stipek good morning good morning sir how are you right so listen i have a betty boop book really i have a betty boop book it goes back to the 30s of course and i have it in uh i put it in um acid-free paper and it's in a plastic bag what is that worth now um the the betty boop in the um the the children's the cartoon books from that time period
They can run anywhere from $25 on up, depending on the individual title and the edition.
I mean, some of them go into the hundreds, and in some situations also into the thousands.
So what I would have to do is see the book specifically and see what edition you have.
Uh-huh.
So, I mean, you could be sitting with some value to a book.
I mean, you might have a three-figure cartoon book.
But then again, it might be only worth $25.
Of course, I don't have it.
I'd have to go in my papers to get it, which would probably be too long.
But I tell you, it has a picture of her on the front.
It's a typical Betty book.
I had a crush on her when I was nine.
I know, it's the truth.
Everybody did.
Now, listen now, but it's of no extreme value.
Probably not, unless you had something which was an exceptionally rare spookiana.
I'll pull it out and look it over.
What should be on there for?
I would have to see the book.
Boopy Anna.
Hey, it's going to be in the next Johnson Dictionary.
Huh?
We were less laughing about Boopy Anna.
Why not?
a certain issue or date number?
I'm not familiar with all of the items or all of the books that the Boop series had.
You have to understand, this man is not a boopyologist.
I'm a pseudo-boopyologist.
I'll pull it out.
If you come out again, I'll call you.
I'll be able to give you some dates and numbers on it.
Sure.
What you could do, sir, is talk to the producer and leave your telephone number with him, and I'd be happy to contact you after the show.
How long would you be on?
Until just an hour.
Yeah.
I see.
Okay.
How much time have you got now?
Not enough.
Okay, good enough.
Hang on.
I'll put you on hold.
There we go.
That's Grant.
He's going to get personalized attention from our newly installed boopologist.
Mary, you're on WRC.
Good morning.
Hi there.
Hi.
I have three books.
They're small, leather-bound books.
Two are dated 1810, and one is dated 1811.
And two of them are...
The British Essayist, and one of them is The Rambler.
Okay, let's start with The British Essayist.
Okay.
The series, The British Essayist, I believe in its complete set from that time period is 66 volumes, which is not to be mistaken with The British Poets, which is the compendium to that, which is an additional 30-odd volumes for a total of approximately 100 volumes.
As a set, they would sell for anywhere between $5 to $15 per volume,
depending on the quality of the leather.
You had the little ones, right?
Right.
Okay.
It's a larger edition, which sells for about $25 a volume.
The Rambler, you probably have an odd volume of the magazine, The Rambler.
I'm not sure if... Is this, again, a small... Small leather bag, yes.
Yeah, that's probably just anecdotes from The Rambler or excerpts.
Again, that would fall in the $5 to $20 category, depending on the condition of the book.
Great.
Okay, thank you.
1119 at WRC.
Alan Stipek is our guest.
We're talking books.
If you have a book that you're wondering about as to its value, give us a call at 202-882-WRC1.
Anything really in the rare book or the antique book market or second story or second, I don't know, what is it?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Resale, used, already read books.
Previously read books.
Previously perused.
Give us a call at 202-882-WRC1.
It's 1120 at WRC.
Alan Stipeck, the book guy, is here.
And Ralph, you're next from Lorton on WRC.
Good morning.
I have a book, Evangeline, by Henry Lodworth, Laura Fellow.
Right.
All right.
It's published in 1909 by Rand McNally in Chicago.
It's a reprint.
It probably doesn't have a great market value.
Rand McNally is not known for doing poetry books.
They're known for their maps.
I would imagine it's a $2 to $5 book.
Okay.
Thank you.
Now you know.
Let's go to Jamal.
Good morning, Jamal.
You're on WRC.
Yes, good morning to you.
I have a full set of a publication of a magazine that was published in 1914 in Syria before the war.
The 1914, the First World War.
And they are in somehow 80% shape.
Are they useful for anything?
What is the magazine?
Is it like a Syrian pictorial journal?
It's a Syrian daily newspaper, and it was binded at that time in three sets.
and it is showing daily activities in that part of the world with gruesome pictures.
With gruesome pictures.
It's in Arabic, I assume.
Yes.
Yeah, sure.
From a historical standpoint, newspapers are very collectible.
Newspapers from that time period, from that area, have value.
I would have to see the newspapers to ascertain what I think the value would be.
Okay.
I'm interested in that area at that time.
Sure.
I mean, we'd be happy to bring them, to look at them, bring them down to the warehouse.
Okay.
I will do that.
If somebody can give me where can I go or where can I go?
Sure.
Second Story Books, we're located at 12160 Park Lawn Drive in Rockville.
Park Lawn, okay.
Right, and 301-770-0477.
Thank you.
In general, what is the resale market for foreign language books, particularly foreign languages that are not Western?
There isn't some formula which says that a book in Russian is worth 75% of the same book in English.
In the Washington area, you have a stronger market for foreign language books because of the international population.
It depends on the individual book.
Let's go to Ann in Alexandria.
You're on WRC.
Good morning.
I have found this book in a family attic, and the name of it is Handbook of Practical Cookery for Ladies and Professional Cooks by Pierre Blot, B-L-O-T, and he was a professor of gastronomy and founder of the New York Cooking Academy.
And what edition did you have, ma'am?
What's the date on the book?
It says, D. Ampleton and Company, 1868.
Right.
Okay, and one little tidbit, which you might want to know, I'm sure, it says, in relation to ketchup, many cases of dyspepsia, debility, and consumption come from using such stuff.
Ketchup.
Wait a second, I'm having a ketchup attack here.
Okay.
The book sells for anywhere between $15 to $40, depending on the condition and the edition.
We have had copies in the store in the past.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
We always take out the ketchup chapter.
Yeah, now, where is that address?
It's Second Story Books, 12160 Park Lawn Drive in Rockville.
We have locations also at 2000 P Street in D.C.
and 4836 Bethesda Avenue in Bethesda.
Uh-huh.
And you can give us a call, 301-770-0477.
We'd be happy to help.
Okay, thanks a lot.
This says Ralph, but I thought I talked with Ralph.
Hello, you're on WRC.
I'm glad I found you.
Listen, I'm getting a copy from a relative in England who has my great-great-grandmother.
It was signed by Charles Dickens, a copy of the Christmas Carol, and
He wrote a note to her in the inside of the binding, and he mentions her by name.
That's good.
That's not as good as the Mitchell item, but it's up there.
It's in the four figures.
It's something I'd never sell.
I want to know for insurance purposes.
Okay, for insurance purposes, quite frankly, you'd have to bring the book in.
I have to identify the edition of the Christmas Carol.
For sure.
There are multi-variants to the first edition of the Christmas.
Oh, really?
Multi-variants.
There's like nine separate edition bindings, and that doesn't even go into the page differences.
So I'd have to see it, and then I'd have to look at the signature and the inscription.
Well, I've been told the book is in pristine condition.
It's a readable book.
That's fine, but it still needs to be looked at physically before I can give you a true value.
Ballpark figure.
Ballpark figure, it's in four figures.
Wow.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
Let's go to Marion Bowie.
You're on WRC.
Yes.
Hello.
Hi there.
Hi.
I have two leather-bound books.
One was published in 1815 and the other one in 1816.
And the first is a Latin grammar.
And the second, ma'am?
The second one is The Remains, which are sermons.
of Reverend John Mason.
It was published in Pittsburgh.
The first one was published in Edinburgh.
Okay, the first book, the Latin grammar, is really of no consequence.
It could be worth $5 as a curiosity.
The book that you have on the sermons of the Reverend Mason could be worth some money specifically because of the fact that it's published in Pittsburgh in 1816, which is a fairly early imprint for the city of Pittsburgh.
As far as the content, the sermons are no consequence.
The imprint date is the important fact.
Well, that's presumptive of you.
Someone may find some value out of a sermon now and then.
I am ashamed of myself.
I'm sorry.
The second one also has directions for use.
which I think are kind of interesting.
Wait a minute.
Direction for use of sermons?
Yeah, in part of the sermons, they talk about how youth should conduct themselves.
Youth.
Oh, youths.
Youths.
I mean, kids.
You from East New York?
All I could think of was Joe Pesci in that.
Youths.
Youths from East New York.
All right, Mary, I think we found out about them, and I'm glad to... I hope now, see, Alan?
There's direction for youth in there.
We know there's some value in that book.
And actually, to take this one step further, there are books of sermons that were published by reverence to be used as traveling sermons, and a lot of times you will find these published at that time in the western part of the United States, because as people went further and further...
In the Western expansion, books had to be published, churches were built, and there was a need for a book on sermons.
And so it wouldn't be that unbelievable for the fact to be a book on the use of sermons.
So this is a potential good one.
This is very interesting.
It's an interesting piece.
I don't think 1816 is really the earliest imprint date in Pittsburgh.
I would have to check the bibliography, but it will have some value just because of the date.
Very good, Mary.
Thanks for calling.
Yes, thank you.
Let's go to Jack in his car.
You're on WRC with Alan Stipek.
Hello.
Yes, sir.
Oh, this is Jody.
Oh, I'm sorry, Jody.
Yes, you're right.
Okay.
Go ahead.
I have a small volume of Black Beauty.
It's about four inches by six inches.
It's the pony edition.
Pony edition, is that what it's called?
No, it is now.
It was published in Philadelphia by the Henry Altimus Company.
Right, that's a reprint house, and most probably what you have is a little pictorial book that was used generally by little kids to read.
No, there's no pictures in it.
No, it wouldn't have pictures.
It was just a small reading copy that was given to children.
They sell for between $3 and $7.
Oh, they do?
Mm-hmm.
There's no publishing date in it.
No, Artemis would not have a publishing date because he reprinted books and took them out of the public domain.
Oh, I see.
Sometimes you use the word pirated.
All right, thank you.
Thank you very much.
Now let's go to Jack.
You're on WRC, Jack.
Yeah, good morning.
I have a question in the abstract.
That answer we can make.
I'm living in Poland at the time, and what would be the value in the marketplace if I could find one?
Our first edition of Shenkevich's Quo Varys.
You know, that's one of the peculiar books.
That's like Lou Wallace, then her.
Supposedly it has a market value, and you could say, in fact, it deserves one because of the importance of the book.
The problem is find somebody that actually wants it.
So I could say it's worth $100 to $200.
The problem is try to find somebody who'll pay it.
You know, it really is one of these great books which doesn't have any marketability because nobody's interested in reading it.
Well, of course, a first edition would be in Polish, so that would be harder to find a market for.
Right.
Well, you know, the person who is a completist or is a purist in collecting would obviously want in this original state.
The point is, what is it actually worth?
Is the scarcity equivalent to the desirability?
I mean, just this formula here, you're right, it is abstract.
I would...
If I purchased the book, I would probably make a Tony catalog inscription and build it up and hope that somebody felt that what my description was was acceptable and pay what I thought was the price for its scarcity.
But again, you're going to have a hard time actually selling it.
The other question, I've got another question if you've got time.
You know, there are a lot of, as I go through some of the second-hand bookshops in Poland, a lot of books are coming out of the woodwork now.
There's a lot in Russian.
Is there something I should be looking for?
In Russian?
I always look for Russian books with enamel printing plates in them.
The artwork, constructionism is very, very collectible.
That would be the key to any books in Russian.
If you read Russian fluently, I also look for the literature of the 19th century.
Any of the important Russian authors...
Just do what you would do if you were buying books in the United States, just what the logic of what you think the best books would be.
But constructionism, I mean, if I had to pinpoint something that has real strong marketability in the United States, it's any books with constructionism or theater.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your call.
More calls ahead if you're calling and getting a busy signal.
It's because we're jammed up, as usual, with Alan Stipek, the book guy, on the talk station, AM 980 WRC.
It's 1135.
11.39 at WRC.
Alan Steifeck from Second Story Books is with us.
We're looking at old books, and even new ones sometimes are worth lots of money, but primarily old ones today.
Marjorie, you're on WRC.
Thank you.
Two books by Joseph Conrad.
Oh, I can't believe you said that.
I was going to say we're going to have a Conrad caller.
I turned today to Conrad and said, we're going to have a Conrad caller.
All right.
Let's go.
These are numbered editions put out by Doubleday Paging Company in 1925.
Right.
The white volume set?
There was 300 books.
In each one.
Right.
I have the Rover and Suspense.
Now, these are the ones that were not signed.
Is that correct?
No, they are not signed.
Yeah, this is the American edition.
Slipcase, it is... They come in slipcases.
Right, dust wrapper and slipcase.
They sell for... It's actually one of 377 copies.
And it's about a $400 book retail.
That's Rover.
And what was the other title?
377, that was for Rover.
The other one, that was for Suspense.
No, that was Rover.
I see.
Well, then there both must be that one.
Yeah, the other one is 377 also.
And again, in slipcase and dust wrap, and I'm courting these in pristine condition, is about 350.
Uh-huh.
Who would be interested in buying them?
We would.
You would.
As he raises his hand.
Sure, you can contact me at Second Story Books.
Can I come to the P Street office?
Sure, you could come to P Street.
I would like to see the books, or you could drop them off, and we'd give you a receipt, and I would come down and take a look at them, or you could call me at Rockville, and we could set up an appointment.
All right, good enough.
Okay.
Thank you.
And can I just say, I seriously, before the show started, I took my little book of reference, and I always turned the page and put my finger on a title, just thinking that maybe somebody will call, right?
And, in fact, I turned to Conrad.
It is amazing.
Alan Stipek, psychic and boopologist.
Boopologist.
And, Tom, you're on WRC.
Good morning.
Hi, Tom.
Hello, Tom.
This is Tom.
Yeah.
Civil War and Song and Story by Frank Moore.
Right.
Collier, 1889.
Do you have the leather edition, the red volume edition, or the...
Blue edition.
I was getting blue out, right?
Anywhere from $40 to $75, depending on the condition of the book.
Okay, thank you.
Sure thing.
Thank you very much.
Let's go next to Alice.
She's in Bethesda.
Good morning, Alice.
Yes.
I just thought of something else.
I'd like to know how much the 20th Century Chronicles, brand new, and its original package is selling for now.
I know it's in the high school reference libraries, but you know what I just thought of?
When I was a teenager in 1935, I picked up a newspaper in Charlotte Amelie.
I still have it.
Is that worth anything?
Which question were you talking about first?
The 20th Century Chronicles, the three-volume edition?
No, it's not three-volume.
It's one 15-pound edition, and it's in a carrying case that has a handle on it.
Okay, yeah, they come in a variety of different editions.
That would sell in our store for somewhere about $30 to $40.
Isn't that expensive?
That would be the maximum we would sell it for.
Now, the newspaper from 1935 really doesn't really have a great market value.
By not having a great market value, it might be worth $2.
It would be worth $2.
It might be worth $2.
I think we'd pay $0.02 for it.
Okay, well, there you go, 1,000% increase.
Well, that's inflation for you.
And you know there are some grammatical errors in the ad.
Oh, we have an issue problem here, the rare issue problem.
It might be worth $2.25.
Well, I don't know.
It's in good condition, but I just saw it when I was looking through my things about a month ago, and I put it right back.
But while I was sitting and waiting, I'd like to get rid of the 20th Century Chronicles.
I looked through it.
I opened it up, looked through it, but it was a gift.
Wouldn't you know?
I wouldn't buy it.
Well, you can use it for a doorstop.
I mean, it has about 15 pounds.
I could do that.
Thanks for calling us.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Just a question, because sometimes we talk about authors who hit it big.
No one is bigger for reasons I do not understand than the guy who wrote of Iowa.
and he's out with, as somebody called them, postcards disguised as novels, Waller.
Is there any collectability to him yet, or do you anticipate there ever will be since he's marketed himself so heavily?
There probably will be because of his marketing, and I'm getting away from these ultra...
modern dealers uh all these these books they're just too much for me to to deal they like buying speculating in futures i'd like being emerged in good 16th century tomes you know you know i'll leave the ultra moderns to somebody else that want to speculate on the 1996 books in 94. but is a first edition of his worth keeping
It is.
Yeah, it will be.
It's the way of the market.
Quite frankly, moderns are a specifically large part of our market in used books, and justifiably, so now it's taken the next leap into the ultramoderns or the most recent books.
Marion, you're on WRC.
Good morning.
Oh, yes, good morning.
I have a number of beautiful old books.
but I just picked two from downstairs and wanted to ask you about.
How about The Personal History of David Copperfield by Charles Dickens?
What edition do you have, ma'am?
Well, it doesn't say, but it's illustrated in color by Frank Reynolds.
By Frank Reynolds.
That's a reprint.
Oh, okay.
They're beautiful illustrations.
It's probably a nice book.
I would have to see that before I could give you a real appraisal of it, obviously the edition.
And you're in Rockville?
That's correct.
Okay.
Now, the other one is probably a reprint then, too, 1930.
That's a reprint, Dickens.
The Decameron.
Oh, sure.
That's definitely a reprint.
With color plates.
And who's it published by?
Published by Gardner.
It's published in Garden City, but by whom?
Is it R.H.
Macy and Company?
It just says copyright 1930 by Garden City Publishing.
Okay.
Oh, it's the Garden City reprint?
That would probably be like a $20 book.
Is it a two-volume edition?
No.
It's a one?
Yeah.
The one volume.
I would imagine no more than $20.
Uh-huh.
Garden City was like a book club edition at that time.
Okay.
All right.
Well, I need to come and show you some other things.
I'm happy to see them.
All right.
Thank you.
Let's go to Mary in Bowie.
You're on WRC with Alan Stipek.
Good morning.
I have, like a previous caller, Evangeline leather.
On the front of it is the picture, a long, narrow picture.
Mm-hmm.
No publishing date.
It's H.M.
Caldwell Company, New York.
It's a reprint of the book.
It probably is just an extra illustrated binding done in a Victorian fashion.
Without seeing the book specifically, I'm going to hazard a guess and say it's probably worth between $20 and $40.
Okay.
Maybe if the leather is in good condition.
All right.
And I have two, and they're only...
I'm not sure it's leather-bound.
It looks like almost an imitation.
On the front, William Shakespeare, and they're about two by three inches.
Yeah, little tiny Shakespeare volumes.
Published by Knickerbocker Leather Novelty.
And how many volumes do you have?
I have two.
Okay, you need about another 38 to complete the set.
So, you know...
You've got 5% there.
You've got a quest.
Look at it like the Holy Grail.
Don't buy them all at one time, though.
You'll kill the enjoyment.
Well, I mean, are these... They're worth, like, we sell them in the store for about $3 per volume.
Yeah, $3.
Right.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you.
It's 1147 here at WRC.
We're talking books with Alan Stipek.
Let's go next to Doug and Bowie.
You're on WRC.
Yeah, I have two questions.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, are you familiar with the congressional record?
Sure am.
How about publications back in 72?
1972?
Yeah.
Good doorstops.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
How long should I hold those for value?
Not in your lifetime, sir, unfortunately.
They will never have value because they're mass-produced, and there just isn't any market for them.
Okay.
I have something of better value here.
How about a full volume of book of knowledge?
A few years?
Mm-hmm.
From 1924.
Unfortunately, that has less value than the congressional records.
Out-of-date encyclopedias, except for the Encyclopedia Botanica 11th edition, which is not out-of-date, it just was a compilation of the best scholars of the time, generally have no, and I mean and am emphasizing, no market value.
Unfortunately, I don't think you have anything that will put your kids through school.
Really?
Yeah.
So...
Is there no value in selling it?
Should they be trashed, or is there any value?
Oh, quite frankly, old encyclopedias are one of the only books I would say too trashed because they're of no use to people right now because they're out of date.
Uh...
I mean, I wish there was some way I could tell you to reuse them, but the information is just not applicable at this point.
I would say, of any books, and I very rarely will ever say this, is to throw books out, those would be the books you would throw out.
Yeah.
I'll just get three more feet of room on my shelf.
Okay.
All right, thanks.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Our number is 202-882-WRC1.
We're talking with Alan Steipik of Second Story Books.
Once again, if you have books at hand that you'd like to find the value of, please bring them with you to the phone when you come.
Steve, you're on WRC.
Good morning.
Hi.
I've got two books and a newspaper.
One of the books is a miniature edition of Pilgrim's Progress with an inscription of 1873 in the front page.
Mm-hmm.
It's just a textbook edition.
They sell for $5 or $10.
Okay.
And the second one is a recipe book presented by the Hyrick Brewing Company.
Mm-hmm.
Pictures, what have you.
$10 to $25 on the open collectible market.
The comics, I think, are worth more than the headline.
And I'm not saying this facetiously.
Comics from that time period have value.
I would sell it in the store intact.
We'd probably package it at $25.
It says comic book.
It's a little more like a...
comic book as opposed to a fold-out newspaper.
Really?
Then I would, you know, quite frankly, I would check with a comic dealer and find out if there's something specific about that one edition that might have extra value than just being an insert in the newspaper.
I'm serious about that because early comics have value.
Some of them, I mean, obviously everybody out there knows about Superman and all these, you know, mega comic books and the six-year-old kids that pay $20,000 for them.
But you might find that that insert might have a collectability on its own.
Thank you.
Sure thing.
Weird, isn't it?
Joan, you're on WRC.
Not as weird as eight-year-old kids that have $100 bills in their pocket.
Thank you.
All right.
I have a book entitled Abe Lincoln's Yarns and Stories, introduction by Colonel Alexander McClure, personal friend and advisor, storytelling president, published by Thompson and Thomas of Chicago in 1901, and the inside cover has
In personal handwriting, this book belongs to Herbert M. Hanks, New York.
Now, isn't the Hanks family, didn't they marry into the Lincoln family?
I am not familiar with the... Nancy Hanks was... Nancy Hanks was... His wife...
His mother, wasn't he?
Was his mother?
Nancy Hanks was his mother, yeah.
Possibly what you would need to do is get a genealogical reference book and find out if Herman Hanks is, in fact, the Hanks is of the Lincoln family.
Well, I'd like you to be Tom of Hanks' grandfather.
That wouldn't be bad either.
I mean, there's collectability there also, you know.
I would check that out.
I would assume that just having that provenance might increase the value of a book a couple of dollars.
But as a book, it's only a $5 to $10 book.
I see.
Okay?
All right, thank you.
Thank you very much.
You've got room for a few more calls here at 202-882-WRC1.
If you're driving about, Star WRC, a free call on Bell Atlantic.
Pound 980, a free call on Cellular 1.
It's 1152 at WRC.
11.55 with Alan Stiapek.
I'm Mike Cuthbert.
Open phones in the noon hour.
And right now, let's go to Brian in Alexandria.
Brian, you're on WRC.
Hey, thanks.
I got two first editions.
First of all, do you do anything with old playing cards?
You do.
My wife found this deck that appears to be French, and it's dated 1890.
It's got a blue stamp on it.
I would have to see that.
There's more to it than just the date.
Playing cards are a field within themselves.
It's just a question of bringing it down to the Rockville Warehouse, and we'd be happy to help you.
To the which warehouse?
The Rockville Warehouse.
Okay.
And then the dog barking, sorry.
Of Mice and Men, John Steinbeck First Edition.
A first of Mice and Men, we have one in the store right now for $450.
Whoa.
A dust wrapper in very good condition.
We still have it in the store for $450.
Oh.
Yeah.
Well, this one, it's got the dust jacket.
It's in pretty good condition.
It's got a little bit of damage, but it's all right.
The other one is...
The Town by William Faulkner, 1957, first printing.
Is it the signed edition?
You mean actually signed?
There's a signed limited edition of The Town that preceded the first real edition.
I see.
No, I don't think that's this one.
The Town is a $50 to $75 book in good condition and dust wrapper.
All right.
Well, would you be interested in seeing the Steinbeck?
Sure, I'd be happy to.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thanks for calling.
Let's go to Ruth in Mount Vernon.
You're on WRC.
Hey, Alan.
I have some more Charles Dickinson.
And one is David Copperfield, 1850.
And I have a Pickwick Papers, 1837.
Well, it's about the right times.
And they're all the same publisher, Chapman and Hall in London.
And I have a Nicholas Nickleby.
And it looks like it's personally autographed.
It says, Faithfully Yours, Charles Dickens.
with several lines written under the Charles Dickens.
That's Chapman and Hall also, I would assume, right?
Yes, they're all.
And that's published in, like, 1838, 1839?
Well, it's got a lot of numerals.
M-D-C-C-X-X-X-I-X.
Well, that's 1839.
Uh-huh.
I got three X's and an IX.
That's 39.
Yeah, you might have something of consequence there.
All the books that you're talking about are the dates upon where the first editions were issued.
And, in fact, if you did have an inscribed Dickens, you'd be talking, as I told the gentleman before, thousands of dollars' worth of equity there.
Well, it looks perfectly in good condition.
I bought them about 40, 45 years ago in London.
That's a good place to find Dickens.
I would be very interested to look at the books.
I mean, if you contacted me at Second Story, 301-770-0477.
301-770-770-0477.
I'd be happy to help you figure out what you have.
Ellen, I'd love to.
Hey, we have a date.
Thank you so much.
In the meantime, is there anything that Ruth should do to take care of those Dickens editions particularly?
In what sense?
I mean, don't put them in your stove, but just keep them where you had them.
Don't let that dog in the background get me right here.
I was going to say, keep it on an upper shelf.
No plastic wrapping or any of that kind of stuff.
Oh, sure.
Put them in plastic.
It's always good to protect them, but make sure when you put them in plastic, you don't nick the edges putting them into the plastic.
One last quick call.
Sherita, we're almost out of time.
Go fast.
Harcourt and Brace miniature score series, the symphonies of Hayden, Schubert, and Mozart, and the nine symphonies of Beethoven, and they were published in 1935.
Right.
Not really.
Good to use for playing music.
Yeah, I had someone ask me about them at one point, said that they were out of print, and
Not really.
Take my word for it.
I've got two complete sets in the basement.
Thank you very much, Alan, for being with us.
We'll see you again soon.
Thanks, Mike.
And we open the phones next on the Talk Station, AM 980 WRC.
Dr. Lee Brown, the nation's drug policy chief, announces a new war on drugs.
He talks about it on Capital Viewpoint, Saturday night at 9 on the Talk Station.
W R C A M 9 A T